## Introduction to React State

Welcome to the Second Level! Here' we'll be learning about React States. React States are the data that is stored in a component. State allows react components to change their appearance and behavior based on interactions from the user. We've been using functional components for most of the previous lessons, let's take a look at what class-based . 


Let's open up the new project you've set up as part of the last lesson's milestone. We'll be using this project in all of the coming lessons. Let's head to the App.tsx file and refactor it to a simple hello world example A functional React component would look like:

```js
    const MyComponent = () => <div>Hello World</div>;
```
Now let's see what a class-based React component that does the same thing would look like:

```js
    class MyComponent extends React.Component {
        render() {
            return <div>Hello World</div>;
        }
    }
```

React components use State to manage their internal state. State is a plain JavaScript object that can be used to record and react to user interactions. For Example, a click counter component might have a state that looks like this:

```js
    class Button extends React.Component {
        constructor(props) {
            super(props);
            this.state = {
                counter: 0
            };
        }
        render() {
            return (
                <button onClick={() => this.setState({ counter: this.state.counter + 1 })}>
                    {this.state.counter}
                </button>
            );
        }
    }
```

In React, each component has its own state. When a component's state changes, the component re-renders. This is called a "controlled component". You can also have a component that renders directly based on it's props, without any state. This is called an "uncontrolled component". In this example, the Button component is a controlled component because it has its own state. In the previous lessons, we've seen the use of uncontrolled components.
