# CSN Course Content React Typescript

The overview for the Typescript Course is collaborated at: 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PeU872bLEQvMmNXpQ_oAgmGJtCGWWbl7oBNOvNMLqTA
## Course Outline

### Level 1: React Fundamentals

#### Setting up Development Environment

In this lesson, the student will be walked through the installation of NodeJS, VS Code, VS Code Extension and the React Dev Tools. Students are also recommended to use a Unix environment - Mac, Linux or WSL

#### Introduction to Typescript

In this lesson, the student would learn about the basic types available in Typescript and how to use them. They would also be introduced to Interfaces and how they are needed to define objects in typescript. We recommend installing the typescript compiler to test out code snippets in typescript.

#### CRA - The Create React App

In this lesson, students are walked through bootstrapping a new React project using the Create React App. They are also introduced to setting up TailwindCSS in the CRA project. At the end of this lesson they have a setup with React and Tailwind that would be used in the rest of the course.


#### Introduction to React APIs

Here, students are asked to ignore the App.tsx file that was generated by CRA and shown how the ReactDOM.render() function works. We explain how the ReactDOM.render updates a virtual DOM and how the virtual DOM is compared to the real DOM. We also explain how ReactDOM.render is the equivalent of document.getElementById('root').appendChild(element) on the real DOM.


#### DOM and Virtual DOM

This is more of a conceptual lesson. Through this lesson the student is taught the differences between the DOM and the virtual DOM and how react reconciles between the two.

#### Introduction to JSX and Props

In this lesson students are introduced to JSX and how props are used to pass data to components and how JSX is just a syntax similar to HTML that in-effect calls the React Raw APIs

#### React Components | Nesting

In this lesson students are introduced to the concept of nesting components and how they are used to create a tree of components. Students are also taught to use Arrays and Objects to separate the rendering of a component from the data that is passed to it. Here we would also teach them to use the key prop to help React identify what components to re-render.

#### React Fragments

In this lesson students we explain how React expects each component to have a single root element. We also explain how React Fragments are used to group multiple elements into a single component. The students would be recommended to use Fragments only if they really need to group multiple elements into a single component.

#### Summary

Throughout this level, students will be walked through the process of bootstrapping a React app and building static UI components.

Milestone: Setup a new templated CRA TS App which would serve as the starting point for their next level and Push to Github.


### Level 2 : State Management and React Hooks

#### Introduction to React State

In this lesson students are walked through building a simple class based Counter component. Students are also shown how the React state is asynchronous and shown an example of how simultaneous updates to the state can throw it out of sync and how this can be solved by passing a function into the setState instead of the value.

#### Component Lifecycle

In this lesson students are taught about how the class based react components portray the complete lifecycle of a React component and when each of the methods of a class based component are called. The constructor, render, getDerivedStateFromProps, componentDidMount, componentDidUpdate, and componentWillUnmount methods are explained with simple console.log statements. The methods for error handling are also explained and emphasized given there is no equivalent hook in React.

#### Introduction to REact Hooks and Functional Components

From this lesson on, the course would focus on the usage of Functional React Components. Students are shown how to create a functional component and use the React State using the `useState` hook. The counter component is also refactored to use the useState hook.

#### Building Dynamic Components using State

In this lesson the students are walked through building a component that renders an Array into a form of with `arr.length` `<input>` tags. An add button would be used to add an additional field to the form with a generated name such as `Input ${arr.len + 2}`. 

#### Collecting Form Data from User

In this lesson the students are taught to use the `onChange` prop to receive the events from an uncontrolled form component. An `<input>` tag is used to collect the title for the new Form Field to be added to the array instead of using a generated name like in the previous lesson.

#### Controlled Form Components

In this lesson students learn how to use the `value` prop in order to make a controlled component, thereby being able to change the text value of an `<input>` text using code. In order to allow clearing the text on adding a new field.

#### Summary

Through this level, students learn regarding React States and React Component Lifecycles and Create simple forms that store data to state

Milestone: Make each `<input>` rendered from the array a controlled element and store the value of the input also in the array state.

### Level 3 : React Hooks

#### Callback Functions

Through this lesson students are taught to pass custom functions down the component tree as props. The need for making callback functions to modify the state of Parent Components is emphasized and the notation of using CB to denote callback functions are specified.

#### Common Pitfalls in State Management

This lesson is to emphasize the importance of understanding that React state is Asynchronous. Different examples are shown to demonstrate how State should be modified based on the nature of the state variable.


#### In-Browser Persistent Storage

Through this lesson, the student learns about the use of the `localStorage` API to store data in the browser. The different methods used to set and get data from localStorage are explained and demonstrated.

#### The useEffect Hook - Timeout

Through this lesson the student is taught to use the `useEffect` hook to set a timeout. The timeout is set to run after the component is mounted and then cleared after the component is unmounted using a cleanup function.

#### The useRef Hook

Through this lesson the student is taught to use the `useRef` hook to create a reference to a DOM element. The reference is used to access the DOM element in the component. The use of the useRef hook to store mutable values is also demonstrated.

#### Custom Hooks | Optional

This lesson gives students an introduction to create their own custom hooks. The use of custom hooks is demonstrated using some commonly used hooks such like `useClickOutside` 

#### Summary

Through this level, students learn to manage react state better and to fire side-effects based on state changes. Students would also learn to use localStorage to preserve the state across browser sessions.

Milestone: Make the Application capable of saving all changes to localStorage using a custom hook implementation wrapping over useState and localStorage.

### Level 4 : Routing

#### React Router

In this lesson we introduce the concept of React Router and how it is used to create a simple app with multiple routes. We setup `hookrouter` and add a landing page to the Form Builder App.

#### Path Params

In this lesson we demonstrate the use of dynamic URLs using path params. The app is modified to support multiple forms/quizzes. Each Quiz would have an ID that is used to create a unique URL.

#### Query Params

Through this lesson we explain how query params can be received in React Components using the `useQueryParams` hook. A simple search is built to search across the different forms that are saved in localstorage.

#### Programmatic Navigation

Through this lesson we explain how to programmatically navigate to a different route using the `navigate` function. Some navigation `<Button>`s are created to demonstrate this.

#### Links and URLs

Through this lesson the students are taught to use `<A href>` that's provided by `hookrouter` to create a link to another route and how this works like the `navigate` function over a standard `a` tag which performs a normal HTTP GET request.

#### Summary

Through this level, students learn to use static and dynamic routes to improve the access to the different quizzes in the application.

Milestone: Configure the router such that each quiz would have a public link that can be shared and receive form submissions. The Components for Creating and Managing Forms should be protected using a static username and password.


Level 5 : Types in Depth and Variants
Understanding the Typescript’s Type System
Basic Types in Typescript
Type Inference
Dynamic Types and the “any” Type
Defining Custom Types
Interfaces and Inheritance

Through this level, students are introduced to the different types that are available in typescript and build custom interfaces for their requirements.

Milestone: Make the form capable of handling inputs beyond text fields. Make the form builder capable of fields of all HTML form inputs.
Level 6 : Modelling and Managing Complex States
Union Types or Variants
Creating Types of Types (Generics)
Function Types
Optional, Default and Rest Parameters
Using Actions and Reducers
The useReducer Hook

Through this level, students learn to use more complex data structures and manage them using the action reducer pattern.

Milestone: Refactor the form builder into a functional component to handle states using the action reducer pattern.
Level 7 : APIs and State Modelling
Asynchronous Nature of React States
State Modelling based on Backend Data Model
Setting up an API Wrapper.
Authentication and Managing Current User
Working with pageable APIs
Options for Global Storage

Through this level, students are introduced to using APIs to work with the backend refactor data storage in localStorage to the backend using APIs. Students also learn to maintain a session with the backend.

Milestone: Integrate all APIs to build a form builder and generate links to submit entries, thereby ridding the use of localStorage for all data needs other than storing the authentication token. Using the authentication status with the server, refactor the private routes.




Level 8 : Best Practices and npm packages
Accessibility A11
WAI-ARIA basics
The plethora of npm packages
The strings attached to using npm packages 
Using reputed packages
Compatibility and future support

Through this lesson, students learn the importance of accessibility and try out WAI ARIA to improve accessibility. Students are introduced to npm packages.

Milestone: Add Accessibility to all form components. Use npm packages to improve the project

Level 9 : Production React Apps 
Production Checklist
Creating a Production Build
Deploying a React App on the Cloud
Suspense and lazy loading
PWA config for CRA

Throughout this lesson, students learn to optimize the project for production use and deploy the same into Netlify

Final Milestone: Use the additional APIs and build the following features

Create a preview for each user submission.
Create a page that renders a table view for all responses which can be exported as CSV.
Create a Question level response statistics that displays the different entries for text questions and statistics for other question types.


