# Componenet Lifecycle

Similar to the events fired by the DOM such as `window.onload`, `window.onunload`, `window.onbeforeunload`, which are fired when the user closes the browser window, we have a similar set of events that are fired when the component is mounted, updated, unmounted etc. These events are called `component lifecycle events`.

In the lifecycle events in React are called `componentDidMount`, `shouldComponentUpdate`, `componentDidUpdate`, `componentWillUnmount`. There are 3 additional lifecycle events that are deprecated and have been renamed as `UNSAFE_componentWillMount`, `UNSAFE_componentWillUpdate`, `UNSAFE_componentWillReceiveProps`. We will not cover these in this course, but you can read more about them in the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-component.html).

Now let's discuss the lifecycle events in React.

### componentDidMount

```jsx
    componentDidMount() {
        // ...
    }
```

componentDidMount does not have any parameters. It is called when the component is mounted. You can use this to perform any initialization that requires DOM elements.

### getDerivedStateFromProps

```jsx
    getDerivedStateFromProps(nextProps, prevState) {
        // ...
    }
```

getDerivedStateFromProps is called when the the props for a component is updated. It is called with the next set of props and the previous state. This is where you can update the state based on the new props.

### shouldComponentUpdate

```jsx
    shouldComponentUpdate(nextProps, nextState) {
        // ...
    }
```

Here, in shouldComponentUpdate, we are given the next props and next state of the component, when the props or state has changed. We can use this to decide whether this change should trigger a re-render or not.


### componentDidUpdate

```jsx
    componentDidUpdate(prevProps, prevState) {
        // ...
    }
```

Here, when a component has re-rendered, the componentDidUpdate method is called. This is called after the component has been updated. You can use this to perform any cleanup that requires DOM elements.


### componentWillUnmount

This is a lifecycle method that is called when the component is unmounted. You can use this to perform any cleanup that requires DOM elements. Typically, if you have any timeouts that needs to be cncelled or any event listeners that needs to be removed, you can do it here.

## Error Handling

In addition to the above lifecycle events, we have a few other lifecycle events that are used to handle errors.

### componentDidCatch

```jsx
    componentDidCatch(error, info) {
        // ...
    }
```

Here you can handle errors that are thrown in the component. You can use this to log the error to the console or to record the error for future reference.

### getDerivedStateFromError

```jsx
    getDerivedStateFromError(error) {
        // ...
    }
```

This is a lifecycle method that is called when an error is thrown in the component. You can use this to set the state of the component to a fallback state, thereby rendering a fallback UI. This is especially useful when React unmounts the entire component tree when an error is thrown.